Publisher's Note
=====
*Maoist Economics and the Revolutionary Road to Communism: The Shanghai Textbook on Socialist Political Economy* was originally published in China in December 1975 under the title *Fundamentals of Political Economy*. The first part of the Chinese edition was an exposition of the political economy of capitalism and imperialism. That portion is not included here, as what is most pathbreaking and enduring about this work is its discussion of socialism - hence, the title change. However, the opening chapter to the work as a whole, which deals with the content and method of Marxian political economy, has been retained.

	For this new English-language edition, an Introduction and an Afterword by Raymond Lotta, a list of suggested readings on socialist political economy, and an index have been furnished. Major Study References and Notes at the end of each chapter are from the orginal Chinese edition; explanatory bottom-of-page footnotes have been added by the editor. An artical that appeared originally in *Red Flag* and subsequently in the *Peking Review* in 1976 has been excerpeted and added as an appendix of Chapter 4. Study questions that appeared at the end of each chapter of the Chinese edition have been dropped. A chapter on socialist China's external economic relations have been deleted. The chapter was less a continuation of the work's theorization of soicalist society than it was an accounting of certain diplomatic, aid, and trade policies during the early and mid-1970s, and the persentation of the class nature and possibilities for economic development of independent Third World states departed in significant ways from the theoretical framework of the rest of the book. An Englisth translation of an earlier (1974) edition of the entire work, including the section on capitialism, is available as *Fundamentals of Political Economy*, translated and edited by George Wang (Armonk, New York: M.E. Sharpe, 1977).

	This translation was done by a team working from the 1975 Chinese text and making use of the Wang translation of the 1974 edition. English translations published by the People's Republic of China at the time the work was brought out have been used as a standard for phrasing and style. Quotations are taken from and references and citations are, wherever possible, given to official Chinese translations and authoritative English-language sources. Most of the Chinese names, terms, and places in the text have been romanized according to the Wade-Giles system, which was the system of transliteration most widely in use at the time this work first appeared. Even though the phonetic (pinyin) system has since come to replace it, this translation preserves the Wade-Giles system of spellings to aid readers in searching out bibliographic citations and references.
